So with all that theory out the way, it's time to continue working on our course project and make sure
we take the next major step when it comes to that
and for that, I'll first of all get rid of that ugly border, get rid of that margin
we don't need and yes I'll leave the padding for now I guess.
So if we save this and we reload, this is what we end up with,
looks a bit nicer.
Now I want to add a navigation bar too and for that, I attached a file where you find some HTML code which
we'll now add to our index.html file. There above the main section,
we'll paste in the code you'll find in that attached file which is a header element with some div inside
of it with a nav element which then in turn has an unordered list with list items that should become
our application
navigation. This is some typical markup which you might see in this form or slight variations in your
web pages.
Here are some links, they all won't work for now but we'll add these pages throughout the course and
if we save that and also save the updated main.css file of course and reload it,
we got this ugly part at the top.
Now our goal for the next lectures will be to turn this into a non-ugly part,
so we'll add our header and we can start by simply selecting the header element itself.
Now of course what we can do is, we can now simply add header like this,
we can target the header element by the element selector.
The downside of this is that we might use multiple headers in a web page,
it's not limited to the navigation, the header element actually can also be used within a section for
example.
So therefore using header here is not really the best way, would be better to define our own class,
so I'll add main-header, that the class name is totally up to you but it should be descriptive
and here I named main header because I believe this clearly indicates this is the main header of our page,
not some section header or anything like that.
Now this class of course needs to be attached to the header element then,
so let's go to the HTML code and add the main header class.
So now the main header is defined such that we can start using or can start styling it. Now which
styles can we attach here? Of course any styles you want but I want to create a header which spans the
full width, which has a green background color
as this will be kind of the main theme color our application will use,
of course you are always free to choose a different one
and I also want to give it some padding, so that the text in the header or the content of the header
doesn't directly sit on its edges.
Now that is a good practice for you,
the goal is to add a background color, to add some padding and set the width to the full page width.
These are all things we already practiced,
so here's your chance to pause the video and then do this on your own and after you unpause, we'll do
it together.
Were are successful? Let's do it together. To set the width to 100%,
we simply add width 100% and this is kind of optional because it's a block level element,
it takes the full entire width anyways but it's still something we can set up, especially as we later
in the course will revisit this and style this differently where this will actually become important.
Now besides that, we want to set a background color. Now I mention I want to use green and maybe you just
use green which is fine but I prepared a special hex code,
a nice green
I personally like and it's #2ddff5c, of course you are free to choose any green you want,
it's the same green we used for the section title though.
Finally, some padding.
Now here, I'll add a padding to top and bottom and left and right
but I want to use different values,
I want to use the same padding for the top and the bottom and the same padding for the left and the
right but not the same padding for top, bottom, left and right.
So what we can do is we can use this to value shorthand
I showed you in an earlier slide and I'll set the padding top and bottom to 8 pixels and to left and right
to 16 pixels, like this. If we now save this and we reload the page, we got that green header, we also see
that our text doesn't directly touch the edges anymore, from a styling perspective,
we can still improve this a bit in my opinion though,
for example this unordered list doesn't look that great
and by the way, if you don't like that color edge here, we'll also replace the red color with an image later
on.
So let's continue with the header though,
we made a great first step but the list items positioned like this,
that's not really helpful.
We don't want to have a list rendered like that,
we just want to use a list semantically but from a styling perspective, all these list items should sit
next to each other, not on top of each other.
Now to achieve this, we'll actually need to dive into a new property, the display property.
Let's explore it in the next lecture.